# Advancement_of_Smart_Healthcare_Monitoring_Systems-_in_an_IoT_based_Environment.

***Abstract :***

With the growth of technology, there have been many improvements in the quality of human life. One such area which has had a practical implementation of new technology is the healthcare sector. Health practitioners and experts are taking immense measures to utilize the benefits of these rising technologies, thus significantly improving healthcare implementation. IoT has formed a crux for many emerging technologies in healthcare, for example, heartbeat sensors, ECGs, and blood pressure sensors, each having various microcontrollers which read data from the sensors, which can be interpreted according to necessity.Though the above has been very beneficial, the healthcare services provided to people have become quite expensive. Apart from this, most people need help understanding the working of these advanced healthcare systems. As a result, they have to continuously depend on medical practitioners to understand what is being deduced. Hence, to combat this rising issue, we have designed a remote healthcare system that can be used to deduct the patient's vitals with the help of sensors and provide that data to be viewed by the general public more easily. Our primary focus was to work on a simplified mechanism to help the patient's family have a continuous check on the patient’s state. The working of the healthcare monitoring system to summarize is a way where the controller collects data through sensors and sends it to the cloud. The data is then processed and examined for remote viewing. The analyzed data will be sent to the guardians, doctors, and family members for viewing.

